- [Instructor] We have mentioned the topic
of the Kubernetes control loop already,
and it is important that we discuss it
before we get into coding an operator,
because it is critical to understanding how operators,
and really, all Kubernetes constructs should work.
The control loop is one of the most important aspects
of Kubernetes, especially in the operations
and its deterministic APIs.
A control loop is essentially an infinite loop,
meaning that it is always running and transitions,
usually, from sleep to wake, so to say,
where work is done during the wake state.
The work of the control loop
is to regulate the system itself.
If everything is good, nothing happens,
and we return to that proverbial sleep state.
The work that can be performed is to maintain the system
in its desired state.
Now, I love the example from the Kubernetes documentation
itself on this very topic.
They attribute this system who a thermostat.
So you set the desired state on the oven thermostat,
for instance, where you want to cook your food.
The thermostat then triggers the heating element circuits
to turn on until the desired state, or temperature,
is achieved, at which point the thermostat
shuts off the heating elements.
Now, as the temperature is lost to the outside environment
or to the food itself, the thermostat once again
triggers the elements to turn back on.
Now, this process repeats over and over again.
The desired state is the temperature
on the thermostat itself, but the system or environment
is the actual temperature of the oven box.
Now, this is all describing a convergence.
In the oven example, we probably spend very little
of the total time at the desired state,
but we are converging to that temperature.
Not too hot, not too cold.
In our Kubernetes environment,
we have a much less analog situation.
We are either at a desired state or we aren't.
If we aren't, we are either in an error state
or the control loop is trying to achieve the desired state.
Controllers are at the heart of the control loop.
Kind of makes sense, based on their name.
And most of our time creating operators is actually spent
in the controller itself, at least code wise.
Now, they are primarily responsible
for maintaining the control loop,
specifically ensuring the current state approaches
the desired state of a system.
The controller tracks at least one resource type
via a resource definition.
In these resource definitions,
there is a spec field that defines the desired state.
Or, back to our temperature example,
the oven box thermostat.
The controller itself can act on its own,
or it can leverage the Kubernetes API as needed
in order to move the system to the desired state.
So now let's take a look at the control loop
from a high level perspective.
So we're going to start with our environment,
and within our environment, we have our controller.
Now, this controller is part of the control loop.
It looks at its resource type, determines if they are at
the desired state, and takes action if it isn't.
Now, we also have a description of our desired state.
This is usually a YAML file, often part of a deployment.
In order to set off the operations, we move our resource
definition into the cluster by applying it.
This is when the control loop will notice
that the desired state does not match the current state,
and its activity will commence until the environment
as a whole reaches the desired state,
based on this definition within the cluster.